IBX-6717: Recent activity (#237)
ibexa/documentation-user: docs/recent_activity/recent_activity.md

---
description: Monitor recent activity logged actions.
---

# Recent activity log

## Activity list

> On the Back Office, in Admin -> Activity list, you can consult what happens recently on the database.

Reviewer: It's not accurate and may give false impression that we're tracking database changes.

```suggestion
On the Back Office, in Admin -> Activity list, you can consult what actions were taken by users recently.
```

By default, the following actions are logged:

- [Content](content_items.md) [create](create_edit_content_items.md#create-content-items), [publish](publish_instantly.md#publish-content-instantly), update, trash, recover, [delete](copy_move_hide_content.md#multi-file-move), delete translation, hide and reveal
- Location create, delete, [hide](manage_locations_urls.md#hide-locations), reveal, update, move, [swap](manage_locations_urls.md#swap-locations) and subtree copy
- Product [create](create_edit_product.md), update and delete
- Product variant [create](work_with_product_variants.md#generate-variants), update and [delete](work_with_product_variants.md#delete-variants)
- [Site](work_with_sites.md) [create](work_with_sites.md#create-a-website), [update](work_with_sites.md#edit-an-existing-website) and [delete](work_with_sites.md#delete-an-existing-website)

> By default, log entries are kept 30 days.

Reviewer: We should note that this relies on a `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` command (or by calling `ActivityLogService::truncate()` method).

Author: We are in user doc so it's not really relevant here. I'll check if I have it properlly covered in dev doc.

Author: https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/2161/files#diff-39e3b03985124d185ec800d9ec576a593d8b720c654dba273908abadc2713a63R11-R32 might cover this properly.

> Log entries are grouped by logical bonds like events, batches, or sessions.

Reviewer: I feel like I know what you're trying to say, but for an external persona this feels like it will be hard to understand. An example would probably be helpful.
```suggestion
Log entries are grouped by logical bonds like web requests, events, batches, or sessions.
```

![Activity list](img/4.6_activity_list.png)

### Filter activities

On the right, a "Filters" block offers:

* to only follow the activity of a user or a list of users,
* to narrow the display to groups having given types of items, or actions.

Select what you want to focus on and click the "Apply" button. Stop filtering by clicking the "Clear" button.

The following setting example lists activity log groups containing a "publish" entry, and occurring withing a week from today.

![Published last week](img/filters.png)

## Dashboard block

You can add a "Recent activity" block to your [dashboard](discover_ui.md#dashboard).

!["Recent activity" block](img/recent_activity_block.png)

You can set the block to display only log groups containing activities by some particular users, or concerning particular object classes.

For example, the following Dashboard block focuses on Content and Location activity.

!["Content recent activity" block settings](img/recent_activity_block_settings.png)

## User profile

> On a user profile, recent activity of this user in shown.

Reviewer: Remember that proper permissions are needed, so I guess we should also add a note here? The same applies to dashboard sentence above - without permissions, that dashboard block will not display iirc.

Author: Permission note and reminders added in 325bb266250a5771dbcebf9c61e74c89ebbfc189

---
description: Monitor recent activity logged actions.
---

> # Recent activity log

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Recent activity log  [[% include 'snippets/experience_badge.md' %]] [[% include 'snippets/commerce_badge.md' %]]
```

## Activity list

On the Back Office, in **Admin** -> **Activity list**, you can consult what actions were taken by users recently.

!!! note

>     - To see the Admin menu, you must have the "Setup / Administrate" [permission](permission_system.md).

Author: This is the label of the permission, not its actual identifier. It could become confusing if I apply that to https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/2161/files#diff-39e3b03985124d185ec800d9ec576a593d8b720c654dba273908abadc2713a63R36

>     - To see the Admin menu, you must have the "Setup / Administrate" [permission](permission_system.md).

Author: It's an option in a drop-down select menu. It's somehow like a button.

```suggestion
    To see the **Admin** menu, you need the **Setup / Administrate** [permission](permission_system.md).
```

>     - To see the Activity list, you must have the "Activity Log / Read" permission (this permission might be limitated to only see your own activity).

Author: ```suggestion
    To see the Activity list, you need the **Activity Log / Read** permission (this permission can be limited to allow seeing your own activity only).
```

> By default, the following actions are logged:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the following actions are displayed:
```

> By default, the following actions are logged:

Reviewer 3: Honestly, I would get rid of all the links regarding actions. If you want to keep it, be more consistent - in some places links are missing, in some are wrong.
@juskora, @dabrt - what's your opinion?

Reviewer 2: I guess instead of linking to individual actions, which are quite selectively described in our docs, we could link to higher-level places in doc:
```
[Content](.../content_management/content_items/)...
[Location](.../content_management/content_organization/manage_locations_urls/#content-locations)...
[Product](.../pim/products/)...
[Product variant](.../pim/work_with_product_variants/)...
[Site](.../website_organization/work_with_sites/)...
```

Author: Done in 1d184ca8ba70ccc031536c6c5732f2d5fdd6371b

> - [Content](content_items.md) [create](create_edit_content_items.md#create-content-items), [publish](publish_instantly.md#publish-content-instantly), update, trash, recover, [delete](copy_move_hide_content.md#multi-file-move), delete translation, hide and reveal

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Content](content_items.md): [create](create_edit_content_items.md#create-content-items), [publish](publish_instantly.md#publish-content-instantly), update, trash, recover, [delete](copy_move_hide_content/#remove-content), hide (copy_move_hide_content/#hide-content), and delete translation
```

Author: links as been removed in 1d184ca8ba70ccc031536c6c5732f2d5fdd6371b

- Location create, delete, [hide](manage_locations_urls.md#hide-locations), reveal, update, move, [swap](manage_locations_urls.md#swap-locations) and subtree copy

> - Product [create](create_edit_product.md), update and delete

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Product [create](create_edit_product.md), update, and delete
```

Author: All missing commas added in dc582cd6591b632199c01a4b94e3440477566498

- [Site](work_with_sites.md)

!!! note

    If your implementation requires that other actions are logged,
    see [custom log entry developer documentation]([[= developer_doc =]]/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity/#adding-custom-activity-log-entries).

    By default, log entries are kept for 30 days.
    This time can be modified through configuration.

>     For more information, see [developer documentation]([[= developer_doc =]]/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity/#configuration-and-cronjob).

Author: ⚠️ 
Wait for the merge
There are links to #2161

> - [Site](work_with_sites.md) [create](work_with_sites.md#create-a-website), [update](work_with_sites.md#edit-an-existing-website) and [delete](work_with_sites.md#delete-an-existing-website)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Site](work_with_sites.md) [create](work_with_sites.md#create-a-website), [update](work_with_sites.md#edit-an-existing-website), and [delete](work_with_sites.md#delete-an-existing-website)
```

On the right, a "Filters" block offers:

> * to only follow the activity of a user or a list of users,
> * to narrow the display to groups having given types of items, or actions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* follow the activity of selected users or user group,
* narrow the results to selected item types, or actions.
```

Select what you want to focus on and click the "Apply" button. Stop filtering by clicking the "Clear" button.

> The following setting example lists activity log groups containing a "publish" entry, and occurring withing a week from today.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows, how to narrow the results by selecting **Action** and **Time** filters.
With these settings, activity list displays only `Publish` actions from `Last week` time period.
```

![Published last week](img/filters.png)

> ## Dashboard block

Reviewer 3: This block is available only in Experience and Commerce, so it's worth to highlight it.

> ## Dashboard block

Reviewer 2: Turn this section into a one-sentence mention with a link to dashboard_block_reference.md
Something like "Recent activity information can be included in the dashboard when you customize it by adding the ["Recent activity" block](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/master/getting_started/dashboard/dashboard_block_reference/#recent_activity).
Move a description of the block there.

Author: I just added links in df71f70ac49f38d958e17fca3d09e08ee209c3c9
And it looks good to me. I'm don't feel like rephrasing it.

You can add a "Recent activity" block to your [dashboard](discover_ui.md#dashboard) (if you have the right permission).

!["Recent activity" block](img/recent_activity_block.png)

You can set the block to display only log groups containing activities by some particular users, or concerning particular object classes.

For example, the following dashboard block focuses on Content and Location activity.

!["Content recent activity" block settings](img/recent_activity_block_settings.png)

> ## User profile

Reviewer 2: Turn this section into another one-sentence mention including a link to:
https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/master/getting_started/get_started/#edit-user-profile
And then add some information there, with a return link to this article, which explaine what recent activity is.

> A user profile displays recent activity from this user

Author: You can see other user profile, not only yours. But it seems that there is no "official" link to other user profiles. I just edited the URL from my profile.

> A user profile displays recent activity from this user

Reviewer 3: Or maybe:
```suggestion
User profile displays recent activity of the user.
You can see your own or other user's activity list. 
To be able to see recent activity log, you need the **Activity Log / Read** permission.
```

> A user profile displays recent activity from this user

Author: ```suggestion
User profile displays recent activity of the user.
To be able to see recent activity log, you need the **Activity Log / Read** permission.
```

> (only if current user has permission to see own or other user activity log).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> !["Recent activity" in user profile](img/recent_activity_user_profile.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Recent activity in the user profile](img/recent_activity_user_profile.png)
```

you can review the most recent activity log in  the Back Office, **Admin** -> **Activity list**.

![Activity list](4.6_activity_list.png "Activity list")

By default, actions on the following items are displayed:

- [Content](content_items.md)
- [Location](manage_locations_urls.md#content-locations)
- [Product](products.md)
- [Product variant](work_with_product_variants.md)
- [Site](work_with_sites.md)

!!! note

    If your implementation requires that other actions are logged,
    see [custom log entry developer documentation]([[= developer_doc =]]/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity/#adding-custom-activity-log-entries).

    By default, log entries are kept for 30 days.
    This time can be modified through configuration.
    For more information, see [developer documentation]([[= developer_doc =]]/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity/#configuration-and-cronjob).

Log entries are grouped by date,
then by logical bond (like web request, or migration file).

Each activity log entry shows

- when the action was performed,
- who performed it (avatar, first name, last name),
- the action itself as a verb,
- and the item the action was performed on.

> !!! note

Reviewer 4: It looks as if this part is doubled - see the note at line 23

Author: Duplicate removed in dba3bab2f699d21b2c84e77e3e8ed80ab43753d5
